BITpro job application process

Research and Workshops

In class, we first research good examples of CVs and cover letters, and are walked through an in-depth workshop on the subject.

Positions

There are three different positions available within BITpro:
• Communications Consultant
o Employees in this position primarily handle communication within, between, and in representation of the BITpro teams.

• Technical Consultant
o Technical Consultants specialize in programming and web design, offering their expertise to the technical sides of BITpro projects.

• Team Coordinator
o The slightly more difficult position, Team Coordinators handle the needs of their team, keep everyone focused on goals, and delegate tasks, as well as working with their team members on their projects.

Applications

After identifying our strength and weaknesses and choosing a position that fits in with these, we apply for the position. After tailoring our CVs and cover letters accordingly, and submitting them to the employer (Elise, Professional Practice 2’s lecturer), we are briefed and tested with many common interview questions, and shown how to maintain a professional attitude while answering them.
At some point during the application process, Elise has interviews with every potential employee individually. This gives a lot of insight into how a real job interview is conducted, and is a valuable experience.

Contract and Letter

Once our applications have been processed and interviews conducted, we are offered a job. This may not be the job that was originally applied for.
Included with the job offer is a letter advising us of the position selected for us and what our grade range will be, e.g. 50-60%. During the semester, we must work hard and provide evidence of doing so, allowing us to apply for a higher grade during or at the end of the semester.
We are issued a mock contract that goes into detail about what is expected of us, and our rights and responsibilities. Time is given for us to read through the contract and sign it if we agree to it.
